---
layout: post
title: Native App vs. Mobile App.Tuesday
---

I think that they are totally two different things. The requirement for writing a native app is definitely higher than writing a web app, because each mobile application development platform requires its own development process and they have their own native programming language: Java (Android), Objective-C, swift (IOS), and Visual C++ (Windows Mobile), etc. So the programmer will need to learn different programing languages if they want to develop an app that works on different platform. That’s not the end, the worst thing is different platform has their own development kits…

On the other hand, building a mobile web app is a lot easier, you need HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and server-side languages or web application frameworks of the your choice, and you don’t need to worry about the development kits because it’s all up to you… Once you build the web app, it will works on every platform. 

I don’t think one will end up a clear winner because native apps may provide better user experience and feel more deeply integrated into the phone. Web apps can provide a quick way to use the app for users that did not install the native app on their phone, the user experience may vary because the user are using them on phone’s web browser.

I prefer native apps, because I like how it feels deeply integrated into the phone instead of running the app on web browser, the experience is totally different. If someone asks me what type of development they should learn, I may say it depends on what they want the user to experience and how much time they need to learn a new programing language.
